README.md, before:

# Sheet Sense AI Dashboards

## 📌 About the Project

**Sheet Sense AI Dashboards** is an AI-powered data analysis tool that transforms your `.csv` files into interactive dashboards and insights. By uploading a dataset and asking natural language questions, you can explore and visualize your data instantly—no coding required.

This project leverages the power of React, TypeScript, Vite, and the OpenAI API to bridge the gap between raw spreadsheet data and actionable business insights.

---

## ✨ Key Features

- 📁 Upload `.csv` files and auto-extract data
- 🧠 Ask questions in plain English and get smart insights
- 📊 Dynamic visualizations: charts, tables, summaries
- 💬 Chat-like interface for conversational data queries
- ⚡ Built with Vite for lightning-fast performance
- 🎨 Clean and responsive UI using Tailwind CSS & shadcn/ui

---

## ⚙️ Technologies Used

- **React** (with TypeScript)
- **Vite**
- **Tailwind CSS**
- **shadcn/ui**
- **OpenAI GPT API**
- **bun** or **npm** as package manager

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have either `bun` or `Node.js` and `npm` installed.

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Challa-Jhansi-26/sheet-sense-ai-dashboards.git
cd sheet-sense-ai-dashboards
```

### Install Dependencies

Using **bun**:

```bash
bun install
```

Using **npm**:

```bash
npm install
```

### Start the Development Server

```bash
bun dev
# OR
npm run dev
```

Your project should now be running at `http://localhost:8080` or another available port.

---

## 🖼️ How It Works

1. Upload a `.csv` file containing your dataset.
2. Ask questions like:
   - "What is the average price of all items?"
   - "List all cars with more than 200 horsepower"
   - "Which fuel system type is most common?"
3. The system analyzes your query, extracts relevant data, and shows the answer with or without charts.

---

## 🛠 Customization

- **Logo**: Replace the file at `public/favicon.ico` with your custom `.ico` logo.
- **App Title & Metadata**: Edit `index.html` to personalize the title, description, and social image.

---

## 🌍 Deployment

You can deploy this project on:

- **Vercel**
- **Netlify**
- **GitHub Pages**

Steps:

1. Push your code to GitHub.
2. Connect your GitHub repo to the hosting provider.
3. Deploy your app with one click.

---

## 🙋‍♀️ Author

**Challa Jhansi**  
Open to collaboration and learning opportunities!  

---

## 📄 License

This project is released under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Update README with final details

README.md, after:

# Sheet Sense AI Dashboards

## 📌 About the Project

**Sheet Sense AI Dashboards** is an AI-powered data analysis tool that transforms your `.csv` files into interactive dashboards and insights. By uploading a dataset and asking natural language questions, you can explore and visualize your data instantly—no coding required.

This project leverages the power of React, TypeScript, Vite, and the OpenAI API to bridge the gap between raw spreadsheet data and actionable business insights.

---
## 🌐 Live Demo
Check out the live project here → [SheetGPT on Vercel](https://sheet-gpt-ashen.vercel.app)

Transform your spreadsheets with AI — Upload Excel or CSV files and instantly get interactive dashboards, insights, and trend analysis — all without writing a single line of code.

## ✨ Key Features

- 📁 Upload `.csv` files and auto-extract data
- 🧠 Ask questions in plain English and get smart insights
- 📊 Dynamic visualizations: charts, tables, summaries
- 💬 Chat-like interface for conversational data queries
- ⚡ Built with Vite for lightning-fast performance
- 🎨 Clean and responsive UI using Tailwind CSS & shadcn/ui

---

## ⚙️ Technologies Used

- **React** (with TypeScript)
- **Vite**
- **Tailwind CSS**
- **shadcn/ui**
- **OpenAI GPT API**
- **bun** or **npm** as package manager

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have either `bun` or `Node.js` and `npm` installed.

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Challa-Jhansi-26/sheet-sense-ai-dashboards.git
cd sheet-sense-ai-dashboards
```

### Install Dependencies

Using **bun**:

```bash
bun install
```

Using **npm**:

```bash
npm install
```

### Start the Development Server

```bash
bun dev
# OR
npm run dev
```

Your project should now be running at `http://localhost:8080` or another available port.

---

## 🖼️ How It Works

1. Upload a `.csv` file containing your dataset.
2. Ask questions like:
   - "What is the average price of all items?"
   - "List all cars with more than 200 horsepower"
   - "Which fuel system type is most common?"
3. The system analyzes your query, extracts relevant data, and shows the answer with or without charts.

---

## 🛠 Customization

- **Logo**: Replace the file at `public/favicon.ico` with your custom `.ico` logo.
- **App Title & Metadata**: Edit `index.html` to personalize the title, description, and social image.

---

## 🌍 Deployment

You can deploy this project on:

- **Vercel**
- **Netlify**
- **GitHub Pages**

Steps:

1. Push your code to GitHub.
2. Connect your GitHub repo to the hosting provider.
3. Deploy your app with one click.

---

## 🙋‍♀️ Author

**Challa Jhansi**  
Open to collaboration and learning opportunities!  

---

## 📄 License

This project is released under the MIT License.
